---
layout: post
title: Jekyll and Hide!
description: I'm definitely the first one to make that joke
date: 2019-09-15
sources:
    - "https://jekyllrb.com/docs/"
---

When I was starting this blog project I had a few criteria for picking the stack that I would write it on:
- Price (hopefully free or close to it)
- Easy to submit blog posts
- Extensible - allowing me to add in lots of custom stuff over time

I was also interested in establishing more of a presence on GitHub since I hadn't really made any commits on the platform, and I know this is something some employers like to take a look at. 

With all of that in mind, I decided GitHub Pages made sense for the project. Pages utilizes Jekyll for templating and general blog functionality, and this seemed to fit my needs really nicely. I had never used Jekyll before so I went through the 'Quickstart' guide on the website, and I picked it up pretty quickly. Their docs are very thorough and easy to get through in just a few hours which was great for getting things off the ground.

#### What's Next?

I'm putting this first blog post up with the site utilizing the [Cayman](https://github.com/pages-themes/cayman) Jekyll theme. It looks a little more modern than the other suggested themes in my opinion, and I want to get something put up quickly that I can iterate on over time. I have no doubt that I'll be doing a full redesign of this thing as I post updates, but it doesn't look too bad as it stands. 

This week I'll be directing my attention to getting better at Bootstrap. Styling has always been something that I've enjoyed when building websites, but I dread having to write granular CSS for a lot of the basics. I think getting good as this and some other UI frameworks will be a really valuable thing to add into my arsenal. I'm a big fan of Udemy, and I'll be going through the ['Bootstrap 4 Bootcamp' by Colt Steele](https://www.udemy.com/bootstrap-4-bootcamp/) to refamiliarize myself with Bootstrap. From there, I plan to take a crack at re-styling this blog in a Bootstrappy kind of way. 

I haven't totally decided on the format for this blog. I'm thinking that when I make major changes to the site or start down the road of learning something new, I'll make a post and talk about what I'm up to. I'm shooting for a weekly update candence, and I'm going to try to hold myself to that. Here we go!